---
layout: post
title:  "From A* to MARL (Part 1 - MAPF)"
date:   2021-07-24 14:45:01 +0300
comments: true
tags: path-finding multi-agent
categories: jekyll update
---
> An intuitive high-level overview of the connection between AI planning theory to current Reinforcement Learning research for multi-agent systems

{: class="table-of-content"}
* TOC
{:toc}


## Introduction ##

Research of Reinforcement Learning (RL) and Multi-Agent RL (MARL) algorithms has advanced rapidly during the last decade. One might suggest it is due to the rise of deep learning and the use of its architectures for RL tasks. While it is true at some level, the foundations of RL, which can be thought of as a **planning problem formulated as a learning system**, lies in AI planning theory (which is being developed for more than 50 years). However, the connection between RL to planning theory might seem vague, as the former is related to deep learning for most practitioners nowadays.
This blog series aims to start from the classical path-finding problem, starting with strict **assumptions** about the world we are tackling (deterministic, centralized, single-agent, etc.) and **gradually dropping** assumptions until ending up with the MARL problem. In the process, we will see several algorithms suited for different assumptions. Yet, an assumption we will always make is that the **agents are cooperative**. In other words, they act together to achieve a common goal.
It is important to note that this series will concentrate on the "multi-agent systems path" from A* to MARL. This will be done by formulating the problems we want to solve and the assumptions we make about the world we operate in. It certainly won't be an in-depth review of all algorithms and their improvement on each topic.
Specifically, I will review optimal multi-agent pathfinding (Part 1), classical planning (Part 2), planning under uncertainty (Part 3), and planning with partial observability (Part 4). Then, I will conclude our journey at RL and its generalization to multi-agent systems (Part 5). I will pick representative algorithms and ideas and will refer the reader to an in-depth review when needed.


